10 Academy cB: Week 1

Careers Challenge - 1
3 real world jobs 

Deadline: 27th April 2024, 8pm UTC

Introduction
In preparation for your transition into the professional world, it's essential to understand the expectations of employers in your chosen career track of Data Engineering, Machine Learning and Gen AI Engineering. This exercise provides practical experience in researching job opportunities, analysing employer requirements, and reflecting on your own skills.

By exploring real-world job postings, you'll gain insights into the skills and qualifications sought by employers, helping you tailor your training efforts and increase your competitiveness in the job market as 10 Academy expects you to be while at the end of the training programme.


Instructions:

Your goal is to explore job opportunities in the field of DE, or ML Eng, or Gen AI Eng, and Find three (3) positions that you could potentially pursue by August 2024. Ensure that each position meets the following criteria:

It is currently available and seeking placement.
It is suitable for someone with your level of experience. 
Remote positions are encouraged. 
Each position must have an online job posting with a link to apply directly.

Create a google slide or PPT of 6 slides (strictly 6 slides). The first slide should be a cover page and the following 3 should be for each job you found, and then the final 2 slides should be of the 2nd and 3rd questions written down here.






Task:
In the 3 middle slides of your PPT, provide the following details For each job you found:

Link to the online job advertisement 
Name of the company
Title of the position
Team you would be joining
Is the role remote or hybrid or physical? 
Physical location of the job (if applicable)
Applications closing date (if provided)
Skills requirements listed on the job application - (Abbreviations can be used)
Years of experience requirements.
Requirements on nationality, right-to-work, or related, (if any)
Salary information (if known)  
LinkedIn contact of the hiring manager (if available)
Analysis of key challenges you might face in securing this role by August 2024 after completing the training. 


Write down the minimum of 3 differences between your current skills and the skills requirements of each of the  jobs you found. 

Write 4 lessons learned from conducting this assignment and how it has influenced your career exploration journey. 


Usefulness in life

This exercise will challenge you to actively engage in the job search process, utilizing online resources to identify suitable positions, analyze job requirements, and reflect on how your own skills align with employer expectations. Through this hands-on exploration, you will not only enhance your understanding of the job market but also gain valuable insights into your own strengths and areas for growth.




